In this video, we're going to create a new page that will allow a user to sign out of the application.
As a quick reminder, in order to sign out, we need to make a request to our service.
We've got a sign out route handler.
So all we really have to do is make a post request to API users sign out and that will sign our user
out.
There's something else really important I want to mention.
The request to sign out must be coming from inside of our component or inside of some component.
If we try to make this sign out request from inside of a get initial props, that request is going to
be issued by the server and the server doesn't really care or doesn't really know what to do with any
cookies.
When we try to sign a user out back inside of that sign out root handler.
Remember, we are resetting the user session and so we're going to send back a cookie whenever we make
a request from get initial props on the server.
If any cookie gets returned to us, we're not really doing anything with it whatsoever.
So we need to make sure that this request always comes from the user's browser in order to sign out
correctly.
And that means that we need to make the request from a component as opposed to from a get initial function.
Okay.
So let's create a new page inside of our directory.
Called Sign out dogs inside of here.
We're going to get our user request hook and we're also going to get the use effect function from React.
So I'm going to get use effect.
From React and I'll get use request from up to directories books use request.
Well, then export a component.
So inside of here, whenever this component is displayed, I want to just return a message to the user
and say something like signing you out.
We're then going to immediately as soon as this component is rendered, we're going to use the use effect
choke to try to make a request to sign the user out.
Once the user is signed out by making use of user request right here, we're then going to navigate
the user back to our main landing page.
So that's the general idea.
That's how we're going to accomplish this.
So I'm going to first set up a request function or a do request function by using user request.
So remember we get back a do request function whenever we call use request.
And to use request, we have to provide a couple of different arguments.
We have to provide that URL, the method and a body if one is required.
And then we can optionally also provide on success if we want to have the ability to respond to a successful
request.
So in our case, our URL.
Will be API users sign out.
The method will be post the body is going to be an empty object.
It really wasn't maybe the best idea to have sign out be tied to a post request, but that's how we
ended up.
So it's what we're doing.
And we'll define an on success.
Now as we saw previously back over inside of sign in and sign up inside of on success.
As soon as we successfully make this request, we want to navigate the user over to the root route.
So we're going to do something very similar back over to what we did, back over inside of sign in and
sign up.
So we want to call the router, push and navigate to our root root.
Back over here.
I'll do a router, push to our root route after we successfully sign out and I'll make sure that I also
import router from next router at the top.
Then finally we need to make sure we call do request at some point in time.
So I'm going to set up use effect.
I only want to run this thing at one time, so I'm going to put it in an array or see a second argument
of an array.
And inside of here I will call, do request.
And that should be it.
Okay.
I'm going to save this flip back over.
I'm going to refresh the page.
And now in theory, if I take a look at my application inside of Chrome console and I see my cookie
right there, I should be able to click on sign out, get navigated over, get automatically redirected
to the landing page.
I should see that I'm not signed in anymore and the cookie cookies should be cleared as well.
It looks like that is exactly what occurred.
Now I should be able to sign up again just to test this once more.
I'll sign up.
Sign out.
Cookies reset.
I got redirected to the landing page and I no longer signed in.
Perfect.
All right.
Well, I think that's it for the authentication aspects of this client side application.
So let's take a quick, quick pause right here and continue in just a moment.